src/content/blog/behind-the-redesign.mdx, before:

---
title: "Behind the Redesign: How We Rebuilt Our Website with Astro and AI"
lang: "en"
description: "A look into how we rebuilt our site with Astro, modular components, and AI-assisted workflows. From UX research to final deployment, here’s how we combined performance, clarity, and scale."
image: "/default.png"
date: "2025-05-25"
---


# Behind the Redesign: How We Rebuilt Our Website with Astro and AI

We recently relaunched the ElPuas Digital Crafts website with a fresh design, rebuilt from the ground up using Astro and enhanced by AI-powered workflows. This wasn’t just a visual upgrade—it was a strategic redesign focused on performance, clarity, and conversion.

## Why Astro?

We chose Astro because of its performance-first architecture. It lets us ship fast, lightweight websites without unnecessary JavaScript bloat. As a web development studio, we needed something that reflected our technical standards and gave us full control.

## AI as a Creative Partner

For this project, AI played a critical role—not just as a tool, but as a thinking partner. We used ChatGPT, Cursor, and Claude Sonnet to:
- Draft and refine prompts for content sections
- Rapidly prototype layout ideas and code
- Validate UX decisions against best practices and conversion studies
- Keep copy *clear, human, and on-brand*

Every section went through multiple iterations, combining human experience with AI speed.

## Research-Driven Structure

Before we started designing, we conducted a deep research sprint. We analyzed hundreds of modern agency sites, industry trends, and UX benchmarks to identify:
- The most effective content structures for trust and conversion
- Key sections users expect from a service-based site
- Visual hierarchies that communicate value quickly

This led to a clear content architecture: an impactful hero, strong value proposition, services overview, selected work, client testimonials, and direct calls to action.

## Modular, Scalable Design

We built each section as a flexible module. The layout is fully responsive and easy to extend. We also integrated MDX to enable dynamic blog content and future localization support. Everything is optimized for fast loading and future growth.

## What’s Next

This site is just the beginning. We’re planning to publish technical articles, case studies, and studio updates—sharing our process and challenges as we build tools and websites for clients across different industries.

⸻

Check it out: https://elpuasdigitalcrafts.netlify.app

⸻

Commit message:

On branch feature/blog  Changes to be committed: 	new file:   binnacle/2025-05-26-CHG25-sync-behind-the-redesign-blog-translations.md 	new file:   binnacle/2025-05-26-CHG26-fix-blogcard-image-undefined-issue.md 	new file:   binnacle/2025-05-26-CHG27-sync-blog-index-pages-translations.md 	new file:   public/blogMayHero.jpg 	modified:   src/components/BlogCard.astro 	deleted:    src/components/GridExample.astro 	new file:   src/content/blog/behind-the-redesign.es.mdx 	new file:   src/content/blog/behind-the-redesign.it.mdx 	modified:   src/content/blog/behind-the-redesign.mdx 	deleted:    src/content/blog/ciao-it.mdx 	deleted:    src/content/blog/hola-es.mdx 	modified:   src/content/config.ts 	modified:   src/layouts/BlogPost.astro 	deleted:    src/pages/blog/index.astro 	modified:   src/pages/en/blog/index.astro 	modified:   src/pages/es/blog/index.astro 	modified:   src/pages/it/blog/index.astro 	new file:   src/styles/BlogIndex.module.css 	modified:   src/styles/Footer.module.css 	modified:   src/styles/Portfolio.module.css 	modified:   src/styles/global.css

src/content/blog/behind-the-redesign.mdx, after:

---
title: "Behind the Redesign: How We Rebuilt Our Website with Astro and AI"
lang: "en"
description: "A look into how we rebuilt our site with Astro, modular components, and AI-assisted workflows. From UX research to final deployment, here’s how we combined performance, clarity, and scale."
image: "/blogMayHero.jpg"
date: "2025-05-25"
author: Alfredo Navas Fernandini
---
import HeroImage from '../../../public/blogMayHero.jpg';
import {Image} from 'astro:assets';

<div class="blog-hero-image">
    {HeroImage && <Image width={1020} height={510} src={HeroImage} alt="Laptop with ElPuas Digital Crafts website open" />}
</div>

We recently relaunched the *ElPuas Digital Crafts* website with a fresh design, rebuilt from the ground up using *Astro* and enhanced by *AI-powered workflows*. This wasn’t just a visual upgrade—it was a strategic redesign focused on performance, clarity, and conversion.

## Why Astro?

We chose *Astro* because of its *performance-first architecture*. It lets us ship fast, lightweight websites without unnecessary JavaScript bloat. As a *web development studio*, we needed something that reflected our technical standards and gave us full control.

## AI as a Creative Partner

For this project, AI played a critical role—not just as a tool, but as a thinking partner. We used *ChatGPT, Cursor, and Claude Sonnet* to:
- Draft and refine prompts for content sections
- Rapidly prototype layout ideas and code
- *Validate UX decisions* against best practices and conversion studies
- Keep copy *clear, human, and on-brand*

Every section went through multiple iterations, combining human experience with AI speed.

## Research-Driven Structure

Before we started designing, we conducted a *deep research sprint*. We analyzed hundreds of modern agency sites, industry trends, and UX benchmarks to identify:
- The most effective content structures for trust and conversion
- Key sections users expect from a service-based site
- Visual hierarchies that communicate value quickly

This led to a clear content architecture: an *impactful hero*, *strong value proposition*, *services overview*, *selected work*, *client testimonials*, and *direct calls to action*.

## Modular, Scalable Design

We built each section as a *flexible module*. The layout is fully responsive and easy to extend. We also *integrated MDX* to enable dynamic blog content and future *localization support*. Everything is optimized for fast loading and future growth.

## What’s Next

This site is just the beginning. We’re planning to publish *technical articles, case studies, and studio updates*—sharing our process and challenges as we build tools and websites for clients across different industries.

<div class="notification">

<p>Check it out: <a href="https://elpuasdigitalcrafts.com">https://elpuasdigitalcrafts.com</a></p>

<p>Github: <a href="https://github.com/elpuas/epdc">https://github.com/elpuas/epdc</a></p>

</div>
